## Experiments with 2D Ising + ML Package

In this file I document my experiments with the 2D Ising model, using the framework of the module I have constructed. This can serve as a quickstart guide ƒor starting to experiment with this framework.

### Beta Analysis
The system I choose to analyze (to begin with) is the 2D Ising model on a 16x16 lattice, with the Hamiltonian parameters ($J=1$ and $h=1$). For this set of experiment I want to consider a fixed value of beta, and so I use the `beta_exp.jl` file to run Single-Spin Flip MCMC for a bunch of beta-values given this system configuration, and plot the mean and standard deviations in energy and magnetization. I then pick an interesting value with the highest autocorrelation time, $\beta=0.2$, to train my model on and perform the rest of the experiments.

[Plots for Energy, magnetization and autocorrelation time against $\beta$ values](fig/swoop_betas.png "Energy, magnetization and autocorrelation time against beta values")

### Model Training
The next step is to train a CNN (on the 16x16 Ising model data) to learn sitewise flip-probabilities. The training data is generated by running Single-Spin Flip MCMC on randomly initialized systems. The data is then processed to calculate target probabilties, and structure it into batches. A default CNN model with 72,000 parameters is used, with the beta-value being inserted into the latent layer. The model is trained for 100 epochs. All of this is done as represented in the `model_training.jl` file.

### Model Validation
Once the model is trained, the `model_validation.jl` file is used to compare the NN based updates versus single spin flip based updates on large $N\times N$ lattices (even though the model is only 16x16). Both algorithms are run for the same number of sweeps on the lattice, and independent samples are extracted. The distribution of energy of the states, and a scatter plot for the magnetization across the samples, is plotted for both methods. It is observed that the model based updates do sample from the posterior decently well. 

(See Plots in the \fig directory. )

### Complexity Analysis
To compare the efficiency and accuracy of the model based updates and single spin flip based updates, I use the `complexity.jl` file to run MCMC simulations for various values of larger lattice size $N$, and plot the wall-clock time per independent sample for each lattice size. It is seen that for temperatures with larger autocorrelation times (and thus correlation lengths), the model-based updates do begin to become more efficient that the single-spin flip updates, however they also come at the cost of slightly higher errors in the mean magnetization (although, that is not a limiting factor and the model can still be generally good at sampling from the posterior). Although both proposal methods seem to be roughly $\mathcal{O}(n^2)$ in complexity, parallel computation makes the model based updates vastly more efficient in practice.

### Note
The above experiment is meant to serve as a "quick-start" framework for playing around with NNs and Monte-Carlo Markov Chains for 2D Ising. I do not make the claim the the default model, loss function, training architecture, or hyperparameters I use are optimal in any-sense. I would expect anyone using this package to implement their own models, loss functions, and training architectures. The value of this package, is that it creates a streamlined workflow for these experiments. A user could theoretically, define their own model and then use exactly the same code from `\experiments` to train and validate their model. Experiments with $h=0$ near the critical temperature would be a much more interesting matter than what I present here, and unfortunately due to time-constraints I was not able to work on those as much as I would have like to.

#### Submission Note 
I have pushed all my figures to my repo also, although I am not sure if this is good practice.

I have, however, not pushed the trained model that I use for all the experiments above ($\beta=0.2$, $J=1$, $h=1$ case). This model can be recreated (and thus all following results also) by simply running the `model_training.jl` script as it is.


